Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
ADAM: A METHOD FOR STOCHASTIC OPTIMIZATION
Diederik P. Kingma* University of Amsterdam, OpenAI dpkingma@openai.com
Jimmy Lei Ba* University of Toronto jimmy@psi.utoronto.ca
ABSTRACT
We introduce Adam , an algorithm for first-order gradient-based optimization of stochastic objective functions, based on adaptive estimates of lower-order moments. The method is straightforward to implement, is computationally efficient, has little memory requirements, is invariant to diagonal rescaling of the gradients, and is well suited for problems that are large in terms of data and/or parameters. The method is also appropriate for non-stationary objectives and problems with very noisy and/or sparse gradients. The hyper-parameters have intuitive interpretations and typically require little tuning. Some connections to related algorithms, on which Adam was inspired, are discussed. We also analyze the theoretical convergence properties of the algorithm and provide a regret bound on the convergence rate that is comparable to the best known results under the online convex optimization framework. Empirical results demonstrate that Adam works well in practice and compares favorably to other stochastic optimization methods. Finally, we discuss AdaMax , a variant of Adam based on the infinity norm.
1 INTRODUCTION
Stochastic gradient-based optimization is of core practical importance in many fields of science and engineering. Many problems in these fields can be cast as the optimization of some scalar parameterized objective function requiring maximization or minimization with respect to its parameters. If the function is differentiable w.r.t. its parameters, gradient descent is a relatively efficient optimization method, since the computation of first-order partial derivatives w.r.t. all the parameters is of the same computational complexity as just evaluating the function. Often, objective functions are stochastic. For example, many objective functions are composed of a sum of subfunctions evaluated at different subsamples of data; in this case optimization can be made more efficient by taking gradient steps w.r.t. individual subfunctions, i.e. stochastic gradient descent (SGD) or ascent. SGD proved itself as an efficient and effective optimization method that was central in many machine learning success stories, such as recent advances in deep learning (Deng et al., 2013; Krizhevsky et al., 2012; Hinton & Salakhutdinov, 2006; Hinton et al., 2012a; Graves et al., 2013). Objectives may also have other sources of noise than data subsampling, such as dropout (Hinton et al., 2012b) regularization. For all such noisy objectives, efficient stochastic optimization techniques are required. The focus of this paper is on the optimization of stochastic objectives with high-dimensional parameters spaces. In these cases, higher-order optimization methods are ill-suited, and discussion in this paper will be restricted to first-order methods.
We propose Adam , a method for efficient stochastic optimization that only requires first-order gradients with little memory requirement. The method computes individual adaptive learning rates for different parameters from estimates of first and second moments of the gradients; the name Adam is derived from adaptive moment estimation. Our method is designed to combine the advantages of two recently popular methods: AdaGrad (Duchi et al., 2011), which works well with sparse gradients, and RMSProp (Tieleman & Hinton, 2012), which works well in on-line and non-stationary settings; important connections to these and other stochastic optimization methods are clarified in section 5. Some of Adam's advantages are that the magnitudes of parameter updates are invariant to rescaling of the gradient, its stepsizes are approximately bounded by the stepsize hyperparameter, it does not require a stationary objective, it works with sparse gradients, and it naturally performs a form of step size annealing.
* Equal contribution. Author ordering determined by coin flip over a Google Hangout.

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
Algorithm 1: Adam , our proposed algorithm for stochastic optimization. See section 2 for details, and for a slightly more efficient (but less clear) order of computation. g 2  indicates the elementwise square g t ◦ g t .  Good default settings for the tested machine learning problems are α = 0.001, β 1 = 0.9, β 2 = 0.999 and ϵ = 10 -8 . All operations on vectors are element-wise. With β 1  and β 2 we denote β 1  and β 2  to the power t .
Require:
α : Stepsize
Require:
β 1 , β 2 ∈ [0, 1): Exponential decay rates for the moment estimates
Require:
f (θ) : Stochastic objective function with parameters θ
Require:
θ 0 : Initial parameter vector
m 0 ← 0 (Initialize 1 st moment vector)
v 0 ← 0 (Initialize 2 nd moment vector)
t ← 0 (Initialize timestep)
while θ t not converged do
t ← t + 1
g t ← ∇ θ f t (θ t -1 ) (Get gradients w.r.t. stochastic objective at timestep t)
m t ← β 1 · m t -1 + (1 − β 1 ) · g t (Update biased first moment estimate)
v t ← β 2 · v t -1 + (1 − β 2 ) · g t 2 (Update biased second raw moment estimate)
m 1 t ← m t / (1 − β 1 ) (Compute bias-corrected first moment estimate)
v t t ← v t / (1 − β 2 ) (Compute bias-corrected second raw moment estimate)
θ t t ← θ t -1 - α · ˆ m t / ( √ ˆ v t + ϵ ) (Update parameters)
end while
return θ t (Resulting parameters)
In section 2 we describe the algorithm and the properties of its update rule. Section 3 explains our initialization bias correction technique, and section 4 provides a theoretical analysis of Adam's convergence in online convex programming. Empirically, our method consistently outperforms other methods for a variety of models and datasets, as shown in section 6. Overall, we show that Adam is a versatile algorithm that scales to large-scale high-dimensional machine learning problems.
2 ALGORITHM
See algorithm 1 for pseudo-code of our proposed algorithm Adam .  Let f (θ ) be a noisy objective function:  a stochastic scalar function that is differentiable w.r.t.  parameters θ .  We are  interested in minimizing the expected value of this function, E[f (θ )] w.r.t.  its parameters θ .  With f 1 (θ ),..., , f T (θ )  we  denote  the  realisations  of  the  stochastic  function  at  subsequent  timesteps 1, ..., T .  The stochasticity might come from the evaluation at random subsamples (minibatches) of datapoints, or arise from inherent function noise. With g t = ∇ θ f t (θ ) we denote the gradient, i.e. the vector of partial derivatives of f t , w.r.t θ evaluated at timestep t .
The algorithm updates exponential moving averages of the gradient (m t ) and the squared gradient (v t ) where the hyper-parameters β 1 , β 2 ∈ [0, 1) control the exponential decay rates of these moving averages.  The moving averages themselves are estimates of the 1 st moment (the mean) and the 2 nd raw moment (the uncentered variance) of the gradient.  However, these moving averages are initialized as (vectors of) 0's, leading to moment estimates that are biased towards zero, especially during the initial timesteps, and especially when the decay rates are small (i.e. the β s are close to 1 ). The good news is that this initialization bias can be easily counteracted, resulting in bias-corrected estimates ˆ m t and ˆ v t . See section 3 for more details.
Note that the efficiency of algorithm 1 can, at the expense of clarity, be improved upon by changing the order of computation, e.g. by replacing the last three lines in the loop with the following lines: α t = α · √ 1 - β 2 t / (1 - β 1 ) and θ t ← θ t -1 - α t · m t / ( √ v t + ϵ ).
2.1 ADAM'S UPDATE RULE
An important property of Adam's update rule is its careful choice of stepsizes. Assuming ϵ = 0, the effective step taken in parameter space at timestep t is ∆ t = α · ˆ m t / √ ˆ v t . The effective stepsize has two upper bounds: | ∆ t | ≤ α · (1 - β 1 ) / √ 1 - β 2 in the case (1 - β 1 ) > √ 1 - β 2 , and | ∆ t | ≤ α

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
otherwise.  The first case only happens in the most severe case of sparsity:  when a gradient has been zero at all timesteps except at the current timestep. For less sparse cases, the effective stepsize will be smaller.  When (1 - β1 ) = √1 - β2 we have that |hat m t / √ ˆ ˜ ˆ ˜ ˆ ˜ |  <  1 therefore | ˆ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ |  <  α .  In more common scenarios, we will have that ˆhat m t / √ ˆ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ since | ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜ ˜

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
4 CONVERGENCE ANALYSIS
We analyze the convergence of Adam using the online learning framework proposed in (Zinkevich, 2003).  Given an arbitrary, unknown sequence of convex cost functions f 1 (θ) , f 2 (θ) ,...,  f T (θ) .  At each time t , our goal is to predict the parameter θ t and evaluate it on a previously unknown cost function f t .  Since the nature of the sequence is unknown in advance, we evaluate our algorithm using the regret, that is the sum of all the previous difference between the online prediction f t (θ t ) and the best fixed point parameter f t (θ * ) from a feasible set X for all the previous steps. Concretely, the regret is defined as:
R(T) = ∑ T t =1 [f t (θ t ) -f t (θ * )]
(5)
where θ * = arg min θ ∈ X ∑ T t =1 f t (θ ) . We show Adam has O (√ T ) regret bound and a proof is given in the appendix.  Our result is comparable to the best known bound for this general convex online learning problem. We also use some definitions simplify our notation, where g t ≡ ∇ f t (θ t ) and g t ,i as the i th element.  We define g 1 :t ,i ∈ R t as a vector that contains the i th dimension of the gradients over all iterations till t , g 1 :t ,i = [g 1 ,i , g 2 ,i , · · · , g t ,i ] .  Also, we define γ ≡ ∂ 1 1 √ β 2 2 .  Our following theorem holds when the learning rate α t is decaying at a rate of t - 1 1 2 and first moment running average coefficient β 1 ,t decay exponentially with λ , that is typically close to 1, e.g. 1 - 10 - 8 .
Theorem 4.1.  Assume that the function f t has bounded gradients, ‖∇ f t (θ ) ‖ 2 ≤ G , ‖∇ f t (θ ) ‖ ∞ ≤ G ∞ for all θ ∈ R d and distance between any θ t generated by Adam is bounded, ‖∂ 1 n - θ m ‖ 2 ≤ D , ‖∂ 1 m - θ n ‖ ∞ ≤ D ∞ for any m , n ∈ {1, ..., T}, and β 1 , β 2 ∈ [0, 1) satisfy ∂ 1 1 2 √ β 2 2 1 .  Let α t = ∂ 1 1 √ t and β 1 ,t = β 1 λ t -1 , λ ∈ (0, 1). Adam achieves the following guarantee, for all T ≥ 1.
R(T) ≤ ∑ D 2 2 2α (1 - β 1 ) ∑ d t 1 =1 √ T ∇ 1 ,t + ∑ α (1 + β 1 )G ∞ (1 - β 1 )√ 1 - β 2 (1 - γ ) 2 ∑ d t 1 =1 ∥ g 1 :T ,i ∥ 2 + ∑ d 1 =1 ∥ g 1 :T ,i ∥ 2 ∥ 2 ∥ dG ∞ √ T and ∑ d 1 =1 √ T ∇ 1 ,t ∥ dG ∞ √ T , in particular if the class of function and data features are in the form of section 1.2 in (Duchi et al., 2011). Their results for the expected value E [ ∑ d 1 =1 ∥ g 1 :T ,i ∥ 2 ] also apply to Adam. In particular, the adaptive method, such as Adam and Adagrad, can achieve O (log d √ T ), an improvement over O (√ d T ) for the non-adaptive method. Decaying β 1 ,t towards zero is important in our theoretical analysis and also matches previous empirical findings, e.g. ( Sutskever et al., 2013) suggests reducing the momentum coefficient in the end of training can improve convergence.
Finally, we can show the average regret of Adam converges,
Corollary 4.2.  Assume that the function f t has bounded gradients, ‖∇ f t (θ ) ‖ 2 ≤ G , ‖∇ f t (θ ) ‖ ∞ ≤ G ∞ for all θ ∈ R d and distance between any θ t generated by Adam is bounded, ‖∂ 1 n - θ m ‖ 2 ≤ D , ‖∂ 1 m - θ n ‖ ∞ ≤ D ∞ for any m , n ∈ {1, ..., T}. Adam achieves the following guarantee, for all T ≥ 1.
R(T) = O ( 1 √ T )
This result can be obtained by using Theorem 4.1 and ∑ d 1 =1 ∥ g 1 :T ,i ∥ 2 ≤ dG ∞ √ T .  Thus, lim T → ∞ ∑ R (T ) T = 0.
5 RELATED WORK
Optimization methods bearing a direct relation to Adam are RMSProp (Tieleman & Hinton, 2012; Graves, 2013) and AdaGrad (Duchi et al., 2011); these relationships are discussed below.  Other stochastic optimization methods include vSGD (Schaul et al., 2012), AdaDelta (Zeiler, 2012) and the natural Newton method from Roux & Fitzgibbon (2010), all setting stepsizes by estimating curvature

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
from first-order information. The Sum-of-Functions Optimizer (SFO) (Sohl-Dickstein et al., 2014) is a quasi-Newton method based on minibatches, but (unlike Adam) has memory requirements linear in the number of minibatch partitions of a dataset, which is often infeasible on memory-constrained systems  such  as  a  GPU.  Like  natural  gradient  descent  (NGD)  (Amari,  1998),  Adam  employs  a preconditioner that adapts to the geometry of the data, since Ÿ is an approximation to the diagonal of the Fisher information matrix (Pascanu & Bengio, 2013); however, Adam's preconditioner (like AdaGrad's) is more conservative in its adaption than vanilla NGD by preconditioning with the square root of the inverse of the diagonal Fisher information matrix approximation.
RMSProp: An optimization method closely related to Adam is RMSProp (Tieleman & Hinton, 2012). A version with momentum has sometimes been used (Graves, 2013). There are a few important differences between RMSProp with momentum and Adam: RMSProp with momentum generates its parameter updates using a momentum on the rescaled gradient, whereas Adam updates are directly estimated using a running average of first and second moment of the gradient. RMSProp also lacks a bias-correction term; this matters most in case of a value of Ÿ close to 1 (required in case of sparse gradients), since in that case not correcting the bias leads to very large stepsizes and often divergence, as we also empirically demonstrate in section 6.4.
AdaGrad: An algorithm that works well for sparse gradients is AdaGrad (Duchi et al., 2011). Its basic version updates parameters as θt+1 = θt - α · g t / √ ∑ t i=1 g t 2 . Note that if we choose β2 to be infinitesimally close to 1 from below, then lim β2→1 Ÿ = t -1 · ∑ t i=1 g t 2 . AdaGrad corresponds to a version of Adam with β1 = 0, infinitesimal (1 - β2) and a replacement of α by an annealed version
α t = α · t -1 /2 , namely θt - α · t -1 /2 · Ÿ m t / √ lim β2→1 Ÿ = θt - α · t -1 /2 · g t / √ t -1 · ∑ t i=1 g t 2 =
θt - α · g t / √ ∑ t i=1 g t 2 . Note that this direct correspondence between Adam and Adagrad does not hold when removing the bias-correction terms; without bias correction, like in RMSProp, a β2 infinitesimally close to 1 would lead to infinitely large bias, and infinitely large parameter updates.
6 EXPERIMENTS
To empirically evaluate the proposed method, we investigated different popular machine learning models, including logistic regression, multilayer fully connected neural networks and deep convolutional neural networks. Using large models and datasets, we demonstrate Adam can efficiently solve practical deep learning problems.
We use the same parameter initialization when comparing different optimization algorithms.  The hyper-parameters,  such  as  learning  rate  and  momentum,  are  searched  over  a  dense  grid  and  the results are reported using the best hyper-parameter setting.
6.1 EXPERIMENT: LOGISTIC REGRESSION
We evaluate our proposed method on L2-regularized multi-class logistic regression using the MNIST dataset. Logistic regression has a well-studied convex objective, making it suitable for comparison of different optimizers without worrying about local minimu